
Goals of course: 

- Situate the **step of obtaining data** within the cycle of health inequality monitoring;  
- Describe the **attributes of high-quality data sources** for health inequality monitoring;
- Describe general categories of data sources; 
- Review the components of this course.

**High-quality data sources** share a number of general attributes. 

They contain data that are **timely, complete, accurate, reliable and accessible.**
• Timely data are collected and reported within a reasonable timeframe. 
• Completeness is when all required data are present. 
• Accuracy means that data reflect the actual situation. 
• Reliable data remain consistent on repeated measurement. 
• And accessible data are available when and where they are needed. 


The **SCORE for Health Data Technical Package**, developed by WHO and partners, supports efforts to improve the quality, availability, analysis, use and accessibility of data in countries. Global reports and dashboards provide insights into the strength of data sources in countries and their capacities for monitoring and tracking progress. 

There are **two main categories of data sources** that are relevant to health inequality monitoring: population-based sources and institution-based sources.  

**Population-based** sources contain information on every individual in a population or a representative sample of a population. Examples of population-based sources include household surveys, civil registration and vital statistics systems, and censuses.   

**Institution-based** sources collect information in the course of administrative and operational activities. Examples of administrative data include records kept by health facilities or by other institutions outside of the health sector.  

Other data sources: 
**Surveillance systems** often combine population-based and institution-based data. 
**Health facility surveys** collect information such as the availability of services in facilities and the capacities of facilities to deliver quality services, including resources, patient care standards and management systems. Data are collected on an intermittent basis by external teams of data collectors. Examples of these type of surveys include: WHO Harmonized Health Facility Assessment (HHFA), the WHO Service Availability and Readiness Assessment (SARA), the USAID Service Provision Assessment (SPA) and the World Bank Service Delivery Indicators (SDI) surveys. 



Data that are modelled or triangulated from multiple sources may also be used for health inequality monitoring in the absence of reliable direct measures